We've covered unit testing, but
I believe that no testing story is
complete without end-to-end testing.
And end testing, in my opinion,
is one of the most underrepresented
value ads within an organization.
And there's a myriad of reasons why
I'm being able to test your features
in conjunction with each other how they
fit together is the ultimate safety net.
Not only does it give you kind of the
peace of mind that when I make a change,
everything works.
I have seen very bad things happen
in terms of regression errors or
maybe something works in isolation, but
when you run it in the context of
the entire app, all hell breaks loose.
And so end in testing is something
that a lot of organizations
do not prioritize, but
I blame that in part to tooling.
I think that a lot of the tooling
available to us was not great and
not written for
modern front end web applications.
But there's two very good tools that have
emerged over the last couple of years
that's Cypress and playwright.
And so what I wanna do is, just show
you a real quick demo how to get up and
running with an end-to-end test with
Cypress in the context of this project.
So the command to run your NN test
within an NX workspace is NPX,
NX, E2E, for end-to-end and
then the project that you want to target.
Now, before I run this, I need to
make a few changes for this to work.
Because we have a large amount of
apps within our Monorepo that we're
kind of playing.
I don't wanna say musical ports, but
we definitely need to dial these
ports in or it's not gonna work.
So because challenges is running on 4202
in the cypress .config file,
we need to update that.
The default Cypress test that
is generated comes in the structure.
You have fixtures which is for
essentially mock data.
In the support, we have a app.po.ts.
So PO stands for page object and what
this allows you to do is kind of segment
your selection logic and
your testing logic into a single place.
And then we have within the E2E portfolio,
the actual test itself.
In the test itself, this is very
similar to kind of a Jasmine syntax.
So describe challenges end-to-end,
before each,
it visits the root directory of the app.
You could change this if you needed to,
and
it says it should display
the welcome message.
And we have a command here
that we're not going to use.
I'm going to delete that, and
we have a call here, get greeting.
That is essentially
selecting an element and
then it's looking to make sure that
it contains some text fragment.
Well, this was generated and obviously
we've changed the app since then.
So let's go ahead and update our template
to be able to run a test against so
when you have the regular app and
your end to end app.
The way that they interface,
because they run
side by side is through the templates and
so
end-end testing should
be fairly non-invasive.
That a lot of times we work with
developers when they're building out
their templates to go ahead and
add in the instrumentation to make
it easy to run end to end tests.
So what I recommend is using
a selector specifically for
testing, so we'll use data tests,
you could use a side test,
there's a number of things I prefer to
keep this a little bit more agnostic.
And then what we're gonna do is we're
going to give this a name of list title.
What this eliminates is,
occasionally you'll see
selectors that are these long
CSS dependent kinda queries
to go with this thing, and
that is pretty brittle.
If somebody moves something or
the structure changes, you have problems.
Whereas by having a test ID, I can move
this element anywhere around the page and
it's still going to work because
it's very, very specific.
So now that I have my test ID in,
I can go back over to the page object.
And from here.
Let's go ahead and let's write a new
function that's responsible for
getting the title.
So export const getTitle and
these selectors typically
end up being very small very specific
functions that are grabbing one thing.
So get title and
then from here we're gonna do cy.get and
let me just break this to
another line real quick.
And then we're gonna use
this syntax right here.
Data-test equals list-title.
There we go.
So now this is going and looking
forward the ID directly on the page.
It's so sad having to cascade or
really query the DOM, which is very,
very fast and it's recommended best
practice according to Cypress.
Now, let's hop into our actual test and
let's update this test here
to be a little bit more
specific to what we're wanting to do.
So should display list title and
we don't wanna
use get greeting instead
let's use getTitle.
And we're going to go contains and
let's say challenges, there we go.
All right, let's save that and
let's Run it and see what happens.
So I'm now gonna hit this and
hopefully everything works.
So it's going to spin up the app as
well as the test runner for Cypress.
And essentially,
one the two against each other.
So this will take just
a small moment of time.
So we can see that generated the app,
which it just did.
Now it's running Cypress against it and
all tests passed.
So fairly simple to get up and running,
which I think we did that in
just a matter of a few minutes.
One additional element that
I would like to make is,
I personally try to keep
all of my logic and
selection logic and
assertion logic or let's say get,
a range act assert that
any of my assertions or
my arranging,
I try to put into the page object.
So right now we're doing get
title contains challenges,
but I think we can do
a little better than that.
So what I usually like to do is
create a static page object.
Or just I'll just call it page and
then create a key value pair for
the things that are on the page
that I either want to select or
I want to reference.
So what I could do here is title and
we'll just take the string here and
put that in like so.
And then we'll go title label, and
we're gonna just go challenges.
Now what we're gonna do is we're
going to write an additional test.
Or an additional function that has a test,
and it's going to be checkTitle.
And now we're going to go getTitle.
And if we go back to our test, we can
see that we're doing an assertion here.
So let's go back to our page object,
and we're going to update this
to instead point to the title label.
So we're gonna go page.titleLabel,
and let's go page.title.
And so, this, I believe, is beneficial,
because by segmenting out all
the kind of the variables into a single
object, if this label changes and
you're referencing it in more than one
test, then it's very easy to change it.
So, now what we wanna do
is back into our test,
instead of get title, we're going
to just do checkTitle and we can.
Let's optimize imports,
there we go, organize imports.
All right, now it's clean.
Let's go ahead and
run this test one more time.
So just a little clean
up to make it nicer.
And if you were to continue
kind of doing this,
you would just go through and
instrument your templates.
And I would say update your page object
to hold not only your selectors but
your assertions, and
then write your specs.
But, what I do like about
this is this is very,
very concise, very terse,
and very easy to read.
If you want to dig deeper into Cypress,
this was obviously a very
kind of a quick example.
There is a great title testing web
apps with Cypress by Steve Kenney,
who is legendary.
And if you wanna dig more into Cypress,
I recommend checking that course out.
It's really great.